docs/src/main/doc/commandlineoptions.adoc, before:

== Command line option

=== Runtime

java -jar atbash-runtime.jar <options>

-r|--root: Location of 'domain' directory, by default current directory.

-n|--configname: Configuration name within the domain, by default `default`.

-v|--verbose: Are all log messages shown on the console.

zero, one or more WAR files can be added to the command line that needs to be deployd. Also the applications that are already 'deployed' within the configuration are started.

=== CLI

java -jar atbash-runtime.jar <command> <options>

==== create-config

Create a configuration within the domain.

xx To be documented xx

==== Options for all remote commands

-h | --host (default - localhost): Host name or IP address of the machine running the Atbash runtime in Domain mode.

-p | --port (default - 8080): Port number assigned the process running the Atbash runtime in Domain mode


-f | --format (default - TEXT): Format output of the Remote CLI commands.  Support values are TEXT and JSON.

==== status (remote)

Returns the status and information of the runtime with as output.

version - version number of the runtime.
modules - the active modules of the runtime.
uptime - The time the runtime is already running.

=== deploy (remote)

Deploys the application on the runtime, and optionally define the context root.

`deploy <file>`

`deploy --contextroot <root> <file>`

`deploy --contextroot <root1,root2> <file1> <file2>`

=== list-applications (remote)

List all applications running on the runtime.

=== undeploy (remote)

Undeploy an application

`undeploy <name>`

Commit message:

Configurable JFR and JMX usage.  Integration with JFR to start JFR recording automatically.

docs/src/main/doc/commandlineoptions.adoc, after:

== Command line option

=== Runtime

java -jar atbash-runtime.jar <options>

-r|--root: Location of 'domain' directory, by default current directory.

-n|--configname: Configuration name within the domain, by default `default`.

-v|--verbose: Are all log messages shown on the console.

--watcher:  Defines the type of the diagnostics, valid values are  +
`MINIMAL`: (default) only the events from the Core module are sent to JFR.  +
`OFF`: JFR and JMX are disabled  +
`JFR`: Events are send to JFR system and Recording is started which is dump to file at JVM exit.  +
`JMX`: Some data is available within the JMX system.  +
`ALL`: Combination of `JFR` and `JMX`

zero, one or more WAR files can be added to the command line that needs to be deployd. Also the applications that are already 'deployed' within the configuration are started.

=== CLI

java -jar atbash-runtime.jar <command> <options>

==== create-config

Create a configuration within the domain.

xx To be documented xx

==== Options for all remote commands

-h | --host (default - localhost): Host name or IP address of the machine running the Atbash runtime in Domain mode.

-p | --port (default - 8080): Port number assigned the process running the Atbash runtime in Domain mode


-f | --format (default - TEXT): Format output of the Remote CLI commands.  Support values are TEXT and JSON.

==== status (remote)

Returns the status and information of the runtime with as output.

version - version number of the runtime.
modules - the active modules of the runtime.
uptime - The time the runtime is already running.

=== deploy (remote)

Deploys the application on the runtime, and optionally define the context root.

`deploy <file>`

`deploy --contextroot <root> <file>`

`deploy --contextroot <root1,root2> <file1> <file2>`

=== list-applications (remote)

List all applications running on the runtime.

=== undeploy (remote)

Undeploy an application

`undeploy <name>`
