docs/src/main/doc/mpconfig.adoc, before:

== MicroProfile Config


=== Validation

For some CDI validation messages, the log contains more details why a certain dependency is not found.

For example

----
WELD-001408: Unsatisfied dependencies for type int with qualifiers @ConfigProperties
at injection point [BackedAnnotatedField] @Inject @ConfigProperties private be.rubus.runtime.examples.mpconfig.properties.ConfigPropertiesResource.wrong
----

has the following clarification in the log.

----
[SEVERE] [MPCONFIG-012] [be.atbash.runtime.config.mp.ConfigExtension] [tid: _ThreadID=1 _ThreadName=main] [timeMillis: 1643116914487] [levelValue: 1000] MPCONFIG-012: Injection point with @ConfigProperties is not supported with a primitive or array and found Type 'int' at be.rubus.runtime.examples.mpconfig.properties.ConfigPropertiesResource.wrong
----


=== Disable validation

The MicroProfile Configuration specification requires that all injection points to be validated to make sure that all required configuration value are present.

There are cases that you fo not want that this validation happens. You want to deploy the application before the source with the Configuration values are accessible for ready.

You can bypass this validation by defining the Runtime setting `mp-config.validation.disable` with a value _true_. You can do this with the set command, using the `MainCLI` tool ir by defining the command in the configuration filr and specify it when start up the runtime.

----
java -jar atbash-cli.jar set mp-config.validation.disable=true
----

or

----
java -jar atbash-runtime.jar -c config.txt <path-to>/<application>.war
----

with the contents of _config.txt_ equals to

----
set mp-config.validation.disable=true
----

=== Additional Properties resources

By default, only `microprofile-config.properties` file within the _META-INF_ directory is searched for configuration properties.  Atbash Runtime has the possibility to define additional locations of properties _files_ that can be added as ConfigSource.properties
You can define the location of these additional locations by using the key `atbash.config.locations`.  You can define this within the `microprofile-config.properties` file or as System Property or Environment Variable (it must be one of the 3 default Configuration sources)

The following types are supported.

- URl when value starts with _http:_ or _https:_.
- Classpath when value starts with _classpath:_.
- Files when when value start with _file:_  but this can be omitted.

Commit message:

MP Config disabled when no microprofile-config.properties file and force module to be enabled.

docs/src/main/doc/mpconfig.adoc, after:

== MicroProfile Config


=== Validation

For some CDI validation messages, the log contains more details why a certain dependency is not found.

For example

----
WELD-001408: Unsatisfied dependencies for type int with qualifiers @ConfigProperties
at injection point [BackedAnnotatedField] @Inject @ConfigProperties private be.rubus.runtime.examples.mpconfig.properties.ConfigPropertiesResource.wrong
----

has the following clarification in the log.

----
[SEVERE] [MPCONFIG-012] [be.atbash.runtime.config.mp.ConfigExtension] [tid: _ThreadID=1 _ThreadName=main] [timeMillis: 1643116914487] [levelValue: 1000] MPCONFIG-012: Injection point with @ConfigProperties is not supported with a primitive or array and found Type 'int' at be.rubus.runtime.examples.mpconfig.properties.ConfigPropertiesResource.wrong
----

=== Module disabled when no `microprofile-config.properties` file

The Microprofile configuration functionality is disabled when there is no `microprofile-config.properties` file detected in the Web Archive that is deployed.
The CDI scanning of the WAR file is not performed for any Microprofile Config related artifacts. If they are present, the deployment might fail, or you may encounter issues during runtime.

If you want to have the Microprofile Config functionality available without having the `microprofile-config.properties` file (because you are using other configuration sources), you can perform the following command

----
java -jar atbash-cli.jar set mp-config.enabled.forced=true
----

or define the set command within the configuration file supplied during start up.

=== Disable validation

The MicroProfile Configuration specification requires that all injection points to be validated to make sure that all required configuration value are present.

There are cases that you fo not want that this validation happens. You want to deploy the application before the source with the Configuration values are accessible for ready.

You can bypass this validation by defining the Runtime setting `mp-config.validation.disable` with a value _true_. You can do this with the set command, using the `MainCLI` tool ir by defining the command in the configuration filr and specify it when start up the runtime.

----
java -jar atbash-cli.jar set mp-config.validation.disable=true
----

or

----
java -jar atbash-runtime.jar -c config.txt <path-to>/<application>.war
----

with the contents of _config.txt_ equals to

----
set mp-config.validation.disable=true
----

=== Additional Properties resources

By default, only `microprofile-config.properties` file within the _META-INF_ directory is searched for configuration properties.  Atbash Runtime has the possibility to define additional locations of properties _files_ that can be added as ConfigSource.properties
You can define the location of these additional locations by using the key `atbash.config.locations`.  You can define this within the `microprofile-config.properties` file or as System Property or Environment Variable (it must be one of the 3 default Configuration sources)

The following types are supported.

- URl when value starts with _http:_ or _https:_.
- Classpath when value starts with _classpath:_.
- Files when when value start with _file:_  but this can be omitted.
